---
layout: post
title: reflection 10
tags: [reflection, ramblings, art_and_change]
author: Thea Zerbe
---
I was very inspired by our gallery visits and our conversations with arts and designed-based practitioners last week. I have been having this realization over and over again this semester that humans are not logical decision makers!! We don’t read 20-page scientific reports on the environmental detriment of eating meat from an industrial agricultural system and then decide to become vegetarian. I think change is motivated by emotion. I met a filmmaker last week at a party and I was explaining to him the Semester in Dialogue program. His response was “Oh man. When I hear about programs like that, I feel bad about just sitting around and making art.” I was so taken aback by this because art is one of the most transformative powers we have! Art for social change is especially apt at getting important conversations started, eliciting emotion, starting to free up the gridlock surrounding social problems, etc.

One idea I’ve been playing with is around the limitations of art for social change. After our visit to the Mashup exhibit at the VAG, I was wondering if it is possible to create art that’s message is universally experienced in the same way and therefore able to trigger the social change that the artist intends. I think that it is really difficult to understand art without a deep cultural and contextual understanding of the piece, and I didn’t think it was possible to create universal art. However, then we met Kenny and Lori and they created art/design for social change within very specific contexts and are able to create universally understood interventions (i.e. the Lets Flip It project with flatbrim hats in South Boston). We also met Althea who created public art for social change but not with any clear change or message in mind – simply to provoke, or not, and encourage those conversations, whatever they may be, to happen.
