---
layout: post
title: reflection 5
tags: [ramblings, reflection, dialogue, my_life]
author: Thea Zerbe
---
For me, the course has really been a pleasure over the last couple of weeks. I think during week 3 the group had some very effective discussions about dialogue and active listening. As a result, I have noticed more group cohesion, less egotism in conversation, and generally better vibes from everybody!

To this end, I’ve also noticed a difference in the conversations I’m having outside of class. Specifically, I think my developing active listening skills are carrying over into conversations with my friends, roommates, coworkers, and family. I feel much more aware of when I cut people off and the group dynamics of conversations as a result. I feel like I am slowly realizing the importance of “reading” a person, or people, and determining how to approach them in conversation. In fact, I am writing this reflection on the train back from Portland where I spent reading break visiting my grandma. She and I have always had a fairly challenging relationship because of some complicated family history and clashing personalities. I often feel that my grandmother hears the words that I say but doesn’t actually listen to them. But something special happened during this particular visit that seemed timely – we had a conversation about what it means to listen and she really opened up to me about her difficulty with it. My grandfather was abusive and left my grandmother, my father, and his brother when they were very young and living abroad in Paris. I have always known this but I didn’t realize to what extent that shaped my grandmothers behavior as a mother (and grandmother). She is very used to having to be in charge always as a single mother and also has difficulty with trust – an important component of good conversation. You need to trust that other people have good ideas and that they are able to enact them, and you need to trust that your peers will be open to hearing your ideas as well.

I think this theme is playing out a lot in our small and large group work. There are a lot of people bringing a lot of good ideas to the table and sometimes we just need to learn to let go and accept that our vision is not the only one, and might not necessarily be the best either. By the end of this semester, I’d love to learn how to take on more of a support role in group work. I think we are mostly all taught to strive for leadership positions and we probably undervalue or are completely negligent of the importance of support roles. Backcasting from this end goal, I think I have ample opportunities to practice taking on these roles in our small and large group work. I will work to find a balance between offering my input on projects and then, when needed, simply helping people get things done.
