---
layout: post
title: CP
author: Thea Zerbe
tags: [education, public_education, my_life]
---
My Continuous Progress Years

As a US citizen studying at a Canadian university, I have little to say in defense of the growing list of problems facing the American public school system. The unaffordability of schooling in the US is rampant and worsening because of funding cuts and weak leadership from politicians acting in a corrupt system. The privatization of a education is choking out money and talent from public schools and resulting in 25 thousand dollar tuitions for preschoolers attending private schools to get a “leg up” on college admissions.
However, there are still people who are fighting to do good work within this broken system. I want to share one bright spot of my experience in American schools: my primary schooling in the Continuous Progress program.

Continuous Progress – or CP for short – is a five year elementary school program in which classrooms are organized into a series of “families”. Families are comprised of two teachers who teach grades one through five together. They share two classrooms that students circulate between freely. The younger classroom has grades one, two, and three, and the older classroom has grades three, four, and five. The family’s teachers teach most core subjects, and students go to specialized teachers in the building for subjects like music, physical education, art, and math.

My CP family was led by Deb and Wally. We had about 28 children in each classroom, but I don’t remember it being particularly hectic because something magical happens when you mix ages – children self-regulate. The older kids are taught to be leaders and set good examples for the younger kids, and the younger kids sincerely look up to their peers and want to impress them and earn their respect.

Every week we would have “Family Fridays” where we would spend the afternoon in a nearby field playing Capture the Flag or Wall-e Ball (a game of our own invention). We also spent our daily “Fruit Breaks” working on constructing a fort of fallen branches and leaves in the wooded area outside our classroom. Wally was always right in the mix helping us move heavy logs or play inside of it.

We took a class camping trip once a year to either Wolf Ridge or Deep Portage (which I thought was called Deep Porridge until recently). Those were always magical weeks where we got to hike, play on ropes courses, and dissect owl pellets found in the area. You cannot imagine the awe and terror on my third grade face when I found a whole, undigested skull of a mouse inside a piece of dried owl shit.

I had a classmate named Chris who had Cerebral Palsy. He was in a wheelchair and had a pump implanted in his stomach that he called his hockey puck. Every year after Chris got his hockey puck replaced he would organize a presentation to deliver to us on his disability and what it was like for him to live with CP. A room full of nearly 60 children sat patiently and quietly and asked Chris respectful questions with the fearlessness, love, and curiosity that has not yet been filtered out of children at that age.

My experience in Continuous Progress continues to be incredibly formative to my person. When I graduated high school, both Deb and Wally attended my graduation party hosted in the backyard of my childhood home. I consider them an integral part of my non-blood family. What more is that I was gifted this experience at a public school in the US during the first term of Bush’s presidency! I hope that Continuous Progress, and programs like it, will continue to find creative ways to increase intersectionality, environmental education, experiential learning, awe, strong student-teacher relationships, and community building in public education despite the odds weighed against them.
