---
layout: post
title: reflection 8
tags: [reflection, ramblings, food]
author: Thea Zerbe
---
Being a part of a “diplomatic mission” this week was a strange experience. It seems to me like “diplomacy” is more of an extremely temperamental but pre-determined reciprocity between two countries that is constantly teetering on the edge of total disaster. Lots of diplomatic interaction seems very staged and ritualistic, but this is apparently the way that we show respect. I was really interested to learn about the ritualism and symbolism in diplomatic action in things such as the state dinner. I was also interested to read a couple of articles anticipating what Sophie Trudeau’s outfit will be for the dinner and if it will be controversial (btw her official title is not First Lady, it is “the spouse of the Prime Minister of Canada”). The whole affair honestly seems a little bit archaic. Can we facilitate diplomatic interactions without these gestures simply by being agreeable and communicating respectfully? Or are these gestures essential to facilitating communication between people from vastly different cultures that have different concepts of ‘respect’?

Also in thinking about the state dinner, I am once again in awe of the unifying power of food. Some of the most amazing discussions I’ve ever had have taken place over a meal. I am reminded of a work that a dear family friend of mine, Marnita Schroedl, does through her organization Marnita’s Table. Their mandate is to bridge race, class, culture, and other means of self-identity through a “human centered technology” called Intentional Social Interaction (ISI). I think that one component of ISI is the kind of symbolic gesture that offering food/other resources that sets the stage for better understanding and discussion. I think that having an abundance of food around appeases people somehow and makes social interactions easier. Maybe our primal selves are calmed when we realize that scarcity is not a problem that could potentially pivot one against another.
